Informative speaking is one of the most essential components of high school and college students’ activities. In fact, it offers students a good opportunity to practice their writing, organizing, speaking and researching skills. Informative speaking helps students learn how to discover, manage and present information clearly. Another great advantage of informative speaking consists in allowing young people to overcome public speaking barriers and to develop their own unique public speaking style that will undoubtedly be of use in professional careers.

Specialists claim that to make a successful informative speech, it is of primary importance to choose a good informative speech topic. There are a great many various strategies aimed at helping choose informative speech topics that will definitely work. It is highly recommended that a student selects informative speech topic that is first of all interesting and exciting to him/her. Only interesting informative speech topics will allow a person to be enthusiastic and to attract the audience’s attention while delivering the speech. Interesting informative speech topic will also motivate a student to research the subject matter closely and to gain some advanced knowledge about the issue at hand. It is suggested that a public speaker makes sure that his/her informative speech topic is appropriate for the situation and that it is an excellent match for interests and desires of the target audience. Another suggestion is that a speaker makes sure that his/her informative speech topic is specific enough. The latter suggestion is explained by the fact that a speaker is usually limited in speech time and will not be able to cover any informative speech topic quite fully.

Those of you who have ever been public speakers before must know how hard it is to find the best topic for an informative speech. Those who only plan of making a public speech some day must always keep in mind that it is not easy to find a good informative speech topic. Below we will try to provide you with some important tips as for how to choose a proper informative speech topic and make your future speech a real success.

So, where can you get ideas for good informative speech topics? In fact, everywhere! First of all just calm down, take a seat and think about what type of informative speech you are going to make. There are four major types of informative speeches: speeches about objects, about processes, about concepts and about events. Now that you have taken your time and chosen your informative speech type, you can begin searching for a good informative speech topic. If you plan to speak about objects, you must focus on things that either already exist in this world, or are about to be introduced to the mankind. Now spend some time for brainstorming. Potential sources of information you will use for your speech preparation are: public or high school libraries, Internet and scientific journals. The list of possible interesting topics for informative speech about objects includes: a bike, a scuba, surgical lasers, the Central Intelligence Agency, the lemmings etc.

If you choose to speak about the process, you must focus on patterns of action. In other words, your speech should be a “how-to” guide. The sources of inspiration stay the same: libraries, online databases, journals. You can, however, expand your search by studying laboratory reports and forum/conference briefings. Here is the list of possible interesting topics for informative speech about the processes: how the World Wide Web works, how to write a rival-beating resume, how to use scuba/bike etc. Remember, once you decide to speak about the process, your search key words must be “HOW TO”.

But you prefer to speak about events? Ok, no problems! Here you should focus on things that already happened, are currently happening or are supposed to happen in the future. To tell you the truth, it is one of the most difficult types of informative speech. It is very hard to find a good informative speech topic if you want to speak about events. As a matter of fact, most of historical events may be well-known to your audience (especially if you speak in front of the history or political sciences’ class) and your listeners will be bored hearing about them once again. So, the suggestion is that you try to find some unique and publicly unknown information about this or that famous event in order to make your informative speech interesting. Always limit your speech focus to those aspects which can easily be adapted for your audience and further discussion. Look at the list of good informative speech topics in regards to events and try to understand how to choose the best informative speech topic: new vision of Kennedy’s murder, the 1963 Civil Rights March on Washington, the Battle of the Bulge, the World Series, newly discovered facts about Marilyn Monroe etc. But keep in mind – you will probably have to burn the midnight oil in order to prepare a great and attractive speech for your informative speech topic.

Informative speeches about concepts usually relate to ideas, beliefs and theories. Many public speakers find this type of informative speech very interesting, since it allows them to use their abstract thinking and to develop creativity. However, upon deciding to make a speech about the concept, take care to be comprehensible and clear while presenting your selected concept. Such informative speeches often employ a persuasive tone. All the data and facts used within the limits of your informative speech topic must be based on argumentative and unbiased information. To develop your informative speech topic, go to statistics reports, thematic books and journals and try to find numerous expert opinions about the single subject matter. The list of potential informative speech topics is as follows: the philosophy of Buddhism, feminism, the Big Bang theory etc.

Nevertheless, in many cases you may not have an assigned informative speech topic or you may be asked to prepare a free informative speech topic. First thing you should do is…relax and take it easy! Then shoot up and start dancing! We are not kidding. This may be your once-in-a-lifetime chance to express your creative mindset and artistic skills. Now you can choose any informative speech topic you like. But still do not forget – the more you know about your topic, the better speech you will make. You must be ready to answer the audience’s questions which can be very provocative in a way. So, show them your best!

Now you are a generator of topic ideas for informative college or high school speech. You already know where to look for information. And prior to doing a research, think about your own interests. If you like arts, try to relate your informative speech topic to arts. Look at the list of free art-related informative speech topics below and adjust your thinking accordingly:

* Graffiti is a unique expression of youth sub-culture.
* Why did Malevich’s “Black Square” become world-recognized?
* Is it possible to combine classical music and rap?
* Cyber punk as a new literature trend.
* How to promote your fiction writing online etc, etc.

And you have much broader horizons to use! Just switch on your imagination! Still not sure which free informative speech topic will be good enough for you? No problems, we will give you some more useful tips!

**Tip 1.** Think about your recent classes and remember which classroom debates you have experienced (if any). The cause of the debate may be a good informative speech topic.

**Tip 2.** Talk to your friends and peers and try to find out what interests them most of all.

**Tip 3.** Take surf on diverse online forums and discussion boards. Each of them definitely has a thread highlighting youngsters’ interests and hobbies. Use them as your informative speech topic’s ideas.

And our last tip summarizing all the above described things is – like your informative speech topic and make sure to research it as deeply as possible! And maybe some day you will become a prominent advisor on interesting informative speech topics’ selection!
